README.md, before:

# causa-demos

### This Repository contains the demos for CAUSA AI

This repository provides runnable demos to showcase CAUSA AI capabilities in Kubernetes environments.

Currently, it contains a Kind-based demo that sets up a complete local Kubernetes environment and triggers a controlled failure scenario for RCA (Root Cause Analysis).

### Available Demos

#### 1. Kind Demo

The Kind demo provisions a local Kubernetes cluster using kind and installs all required components to demonstrate CAUSA AI in action.

What the demo does:

- Creates a kind Kubernetes cluster named causa
- Installs CAUSA RCA Agent into the cluster
- Installs Prometheus stack (via kube-prometheus)
- Installs cAdvisor for container metrics
- Deploys a Quarkus-based sample application that intentionally causes a Heap Out Of Memory (OOM) condition
- Deploys a load generator that gradually increases heap usage
- Triggers a controlled OOM failure in the application
- Allows CAUSA RCA Agent to analyze the failure and produce RCA logs

#### Prerequisites

Ensure the following tools are installed and available in your `$PATH` before running the demo:

```
kind

docker

kubectl

git

jq

python3
```

#### How to run the demo

```shell
git clone https://github.com/causaai/causa-demos.git
cd causa-demos/kind
./demo.sh
```

Commit message:

Update readme with post script and clean details
Signed-off-by: bharathappali <abharath@redhat.com>

README.md, after:

# causa-demos

### This Repository contains the demos for CAUSA AI

This repository provides runnable demos to showcase CAUSA AI capabilities in Kubernetes environments.

Currently, it contains a Kind-based demo that sets up a complete local Kubernetes environment and triggers a controlled failure scenario for RCA (Root Cause Analysis).

### Available Demos

#### 1. Kind Demo

The Kind demo provisions a local Kubernetes cluster using kind and installs all required components to demonstrate CAUSA AI in action.

What the demo does:

- Creates a kind Kubernetes cluster named causa
- Installs CAUSA RCA Agent into the cluster
- Installs Prometheus stack (via kube-prometheus)
- Installs cAdvisor for container metrics
- Deploys a Quarkus-based sample application that intentionally causes a Heap Out Of Memory (OOM) condition
- Deploys a load generator that gradually increases heap usage
- Triggers a controlled OOM failure in the application
- Allows CAUSA RCA Agent to analyze the failure and produce RCA logs

#### Prerequisites

Ensure the following tools are installed and available in your `$PATH` before running the demo:

```text
kind

docker

kubectl

git

jq

python3
```

#### How to run the demo

```bash
git clone https://github.com/causaai/causa-demos.git
cd causa-demos/kind
./demo.sh
```

#### Steps After the Demo Script Completes

Once the Kind demo script finishes running and reports that the Heap OOM has been reached, follow these steps to observe CAUSA AI in action:

- Inspect CAUSA RCA Agent logs

```bash
kubectl logs -f <rca-agent-pod>
```

- Clean up resources when done

Once you are done with the demo, proceed to clean it up with `-t` option

```bash
./demo.sh -t
```
